>> Paul DeBettignies: So A,
don't have two LinkedIn profiles.
It's actually against
the terms of service.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Paul DeBettignies: Yep, so
many people now like post Great Recession,
post 2008 to 2011
whether you're in the US around the world,
there was a global recession.
Many people now have literally had
three careers in the last ten years or
two careers the last ten years.
So it's more common place now.
That we tend to have more interest
as a workforce than we had,
say in decades past.
So I think it's very okay for
you to say I'm looking for a full time
developer role and be continuing my
writing, how will you rephrase that?
Because what will undoubtedly happen is,
you will end up at a company and
then go away you can write for us too.
Now I get that you may want to
be doing that on the side or
maybe you do some freelancing and
getting paid on nights and weekends.
You will likely find though that,
particularly companies,
maybe small agencies, startups in
particular small tech groups are like,
man, I'd be really cool if we had
a really good junior developer.
And if you can write for us too, yeah.
So I would incorporate that into that.
So these are really laid
back casual phrases.
I'll come up with a top of my head that
might not even be grammatically correct,
but it can be like I'm looking for
a full time developer role.
Where I can also help contribute content
on the company blogger website, or
I can also help with presentation or
sales material.
Like you can weave that in pretty easy and
I would do that versus not.
I would absolutely combine it in there.
Yes, ma'am.
>> Speaker 2: Does that mean that we
should also try to keep like personal
interests out of our social media?
>> Paul DeBettignies: So
the question about,
should I keep my interest
out of social media?
I'm gonna venture here and I don't want to
but someone's gonna ask sooner or later.
We live in a hyper charged
political climate.
Not just in the US but around the world.
I'm good with most of the things that
someone might talk about online.
There are some things that I
actually don't venture near anymore.
So go back a number of years
when there was the then
Senator McCain, not yet
President Obama debate.
I'm gonna go here only for the sake for
this example, I'm a moderate at my heart.
A fiscally conservative socially don't
give a damn as long as you're not hurting
someone but can't quite be a libertarian
cuz they kinda wake me up to,
which means I never have like
a party on Tuesday when we voted.
My ballot was mixed across the board.
But I used to tweet a lot about politics.
So that year particularly,
I was like, I was not,
I was critiquing both candidates equally.
And so
my Republican friends were hating on me,
my democrat friends were hating on me,
like I am never gonna do this again.
Now, I said that at a Minneapolis junior
developers event last January and
then I had a young lady asked
me a question she goes, well,
what if I just flat out believe in
these causes and I don't give a shit if
someone's not gonna hire me because
of them and I'm like, cool.
If you know that the things you're
saying regardless of affiliation,
regardless of how you look at,
may potentially alienate you from certain
roles, cool, I know that I
have at times probably pissed
off a lot of Wisconsin Badgers football
fans over the years cuz I'm not kind.
I hate them.
I love the University of Wisconsin,
Massa's a fantastic city,
the school is amazing.
In college, my senior year,
I think it was my junior,
my senior year we played
the Wisconsin Badgers for homecoming.
And instead of like having Bucky and
then the Badger for
those of you can kinda who
knows some college stuff.
It just said fuck Bucky and
I wore that proudly tell it was ripped and
had the stains,
I know I've annoyed some people,
I probably cost me a client or two.
You know, I'm cool with that.
[LAUGH] On almost everything else though,
I don't because I'm
trying to be sensitive that just
because you don't think like I do.
And by the way, thank God for
that, that not everybody thinks
the way that I do like I love banter.
I love back and
forth stuff but online, but
if you're saying that you're into flying,
you're into pottery,
you're into college football,
you're into nonprofits and volunteering.
But now and again,
I'll get a question like, should I say
that I've been volunteering at
Planned Parenthood or for the tea party?
I'm not gonna answer that question cuz I'm
gonna let you all decide what's best for
you and your path.
Quick side note since I've had
a few of these, my Attorney and I,
she's like my big sister.
We were doing a presentation her
night together a number of years ago,
probably four or five years ago.
Minnesota State High School
hockey tournament was going on.
For those of you who are not familiar
with it, if you go to YouTube and
do a YouTube search like
Minnesota hockey hair,
you'll get an idea of what the Minnesota
State hockey tournament is like.
It's cult-like in our state.
That year a team Benilde St. Margaret's
was in the high school hockey tournament.
One of their players had recently
become paralyzed in a very
horrible hockey accident.
And Benilde St. Margaret's was in high
school tournament neighbor doing well.
I was sitting at a coffee shop
with my attorney for two hours,
explaining how I find Kant's on
social media with my attorney.
And then I got followed by
a project manager here in town.
I said, well, let's play it out.
So on his Twitter stream, it was pretty
clear he graduated from this high school.
It's a private catholic school.
I then copy and pasted his name he's a
project manager like this might be someone
I'd wanna recruit.
So I copy and paste this name and
i put in a LinkedIn.
On LinkedIn, I figure out, well,
he's indeed working for this really cool
consulting firm in town and hey, like
this is someone I would wanna recruit.
A couple of the groups he belonged to
on LinkedIn were political affiliated
a little more than a little to the right,
he was a little conservative.
I still don't care,
he's a good project manager.
Then did copy and paste and put it on
Facebook and this isn't Facebook when
in fact in where it was like parts
of your profile could be public and
others could be private
his groups republic,
it was really abundantly clear that
this guy was very, very conservative.
And again, I don't care because
you're really good project manager.
But what happens if you're hiring
manager is a Bernie Sanders
liberal PETA loving
affiliation cuz by the way,
the Facebook profile was him wearing
blaze orange holding a deer head.
Do you hear what I'm saying?
These things do get judged though,
I'm just gonna let you all do it and
I'll probably wouldn't normally not
gone this far but you know what?
I think this is an important thing
to talk about now, so thank you for
let me go on a huge tangent.
And I'm hoping that everyone else is
going to take some value in that.